 Calcio's Superman

"More than 25 years ago I made my vow: I swore to protect you. Look after you. A shield against all your enemies. I’ve always thought about your welfare, putting it first, even ahead of my own." - Gianluigi Buffon addressing his goal

Leader, legend, World champion, Scudetto winner - the greatest of all time? As Gianluigi Buffon turns 40, it's hard to find the words to describe his contribution to calcio, and to football in general.

In this special collection of features, Football Italia looks back on the goalkeeper's remarkable career with archive material and new writing, to try and capture just a little of what makes Buffon a living legend: what makes him Superman.

Compare new betting sites and the latest welcome offers.
The Birth of a Legend

Every superhero needs a good origin story, and Giancarlo Rinaldi looks back on Buffon's debuts for Parma and for Italy. Read more.
Buffon's 40 at 40

To celebrate Buffon's 40th birthday, Livio Caferoglu counts down the top 40 moments from his club and international career. Read more.
Buffon by the Numbers

Selected statistics and facts relating to Gigi Buffon and his illustrious career. Read more.
The World’s Most Expensive Goalkeeper

In 2001, Juventus paid a world record fee to sign Buffon from Parma. Tom Scholes tells the story of that transfer. Read more.
Buffon's Everlasting Dream

For all the trophies he's won, there is one which still eludes Gianluigi Buffon - the Champions League. Richard Hall looks back on some near misses. Read more.
What Buffon Means to Juventus

He may have started his career with Parma, but Gigi is now synonymous with Juventus. Adam Digby explains just what he means to Turin's Old Lady. Read more.
On Top of the World

Gianluigi Buffon played a crucial role as Italy won the World Cup in 2006, playing in every match and conceding just two goals. Includes a gallery of Buffon's best moments throughout the tournament. Read more.
When Superman Was Clark Kent

He'll go down as one of the best goalkeepers of all time, but Buffon has overcome poor form, injuries and depression during his lengthy career, writes Gaby McKay. Read more.
Il Gigi Nazionale

Gianluigi Buffon represented Italy for over 20 years and won the World Cup, but was denied the fairy-tale ending he deserved, writes Susy Campanale. Read more.
What makes Buffon so good?

Having been one of the best shot-stoppers in the world for the past 20 years, just what is it that makes Buffon so good? Greg Murray investigates. Read more.
Opponents' All Time XI

With over 1,000 games under his belt, Gigi Buffon has played against some of the game’s true greats and Football Italia has composed a team of his greatest opponents. Read more.
"As long my legs, my head and my heart will allow…"

It seems all but certain Gianluigi Buffon will hang up his gloves at the end of this season, but should he play on? Chloe Beresford weighs-up the arguments. Read more.
The Greatest of all Time?

There’s no question that Gianluigi Buffon is one of the greatest goalkeepers of all time, but Gaby McKay weighs up whether he’s the best ever. Read more.
From the archive...
Dream Team's No 1

Football Italia marks its centenary issue by putting together a Serie A Dream Team of the past 100 issues. Competition for the starting XI is tough, but there is no doubting Gigi Buffon’s place in between the sticks. Read more.
Exclusive interview: Buffon dreams on

Football Italia's archives include this early insight into Gianluigi Buffon's psyche, just as he was making a name for himself at Parma. Read more.
Exclusive interview: Superman

Football Italia delves into its archives to find a gem of an interview with Juventus and Italy's legendary goalkeeper, Gigi Buffon. Read more.
Football Italia Archive: Gianluigi Buffon

Relive a selection of highs and lows from Gigi Buffon's career, as told through the pages of Football Italia and Calcio Italia magazine. Read more.
